
JabRef 1.x
----------


Introduction:

JabRef is a graphical Java application for editing bibtex (.bib)
databases. JabRef lets you organize your entries into overlapping
logical groups, and with a single click limit your view to a single
group or an intersection or union of several groups. You can customize
the entry information shown in the main window, and sort by any of the
standard Bibtex fields. JabRef can autogenerate bibtex keys for your
entries, and autocomplete words or names in the field types of your
choosing. Most operations can be done without using the mouse.

Version 1.1 improves customization features significantly, allowing you
to customize which fields to include as optional and required for each of
the existing entry types, as well as define new entry types. The "General
fields" tab can also be set to display any combination of fields.


License:
JabRef is free software, distributed under the GNU General Public
Licence. See the enclosed text file 'gpl.txt', or the About dialog,
for details about the GPL.


Requirements:
JabRef runs on any system equipped with the Java Virtual Machine (1.4.2
or newer), which can be downloaded at no cost from
http://java.sun.com.


Installing and running:
JabRef 1.1 is distributed as an executable .jar file. Run the
program as follows:
If you are using the Java Development Kit:
     java -jar <path to jar>
or, if you are using the Java Runtime Environment:
     jre -new -jar <path to jar> or
     jrew -new -jar <path to jar>
On a Windows system, you can probably run the program by
double-clicking on the jar file.

The jar file containing JabRef kan be unpacked with the command:
    jar xf <path to jar>
or  jar xf <path to jar> <list of files to extract>
Unpacking the jar file is not necessary to run the program.


Documentation:
JabRef comes with an online help function, accessed by presing F1 or
clicking on a question mark icon. The help files are probably not
exhaustive enough to satisfy everyone yet, but they should help sort
out the most important issues about using the program. The help files
can also be viewed outside the program with a standard HTML browser.


Change log:
1.x:	- Added functionality for using Browse buttons for file-related fields
	  (ps, pdf, etc.).
	- Added Browse buttons to External programs tab in Preferences.
	- Fixed bug related to Save database and Source field, which caused changes
	  to disappear.
1.1:	- Added bibtex key uniqueness checking, and prevented autogeneration
	  from generating non-unique keys.
	- Added command line option to load file on startup.
	- Fixed problem with autogeneration creating invalid keys.
	- Improved Refer/Endnote import.
	- Added feature for importing entries and/or strings and/or group
          definitions from another BibTeX database.
	- Added menu choices to import into open database.
      	- Added toolbar button for closing current database.
      	- Fixed shortcut key for "Store field" in entry editor, and fixed
      	  problem that made shortcut for "Save database" unavailable from
	  entry editor.
	- Added option to fetch Medline entries automatically by
	  ID, based on a patch submitted by Mike Smoot.
	- Fixed bug in RIS import.
	- Added options to copy key and copy "\cite{key}" to right-click menu.
	- Fixed bug that caused some General fields not to get displayed.
	- Enabled customization of General fields.
	- Enabled customization of existing entry types, and definition of
	  new types.
1.0:	First release.

Bug reports, suggestions, other feedback:
We are thankful for any bug reports or other feedback. If there are
features you want included in JabRef, tell us!


JabRef homepage:
http://jabref.sourceforge.net

You can always get the very latest version of the program from our CVS
repository; instructions for downloading are found on the
homepage. Note that the CVS version may contain untested features, or
have other stability issues. Unless you're feeling extremely lucky, go
for the version in the HEAD branch of the module 'jabref'.


Bug submission and Open Discussions and Help forums are found at:
http://sourceforge.net/projects/jabref


Corresponding authors:
mortenalver _ sourceforge.net
nbatada _ sourceforge.net
